update LDAP BBG (#2)
ballerina-guides/securing-restful-services-with-ldap: README.md

        } else {
            error err = error("Validation error: Input '" + input + "' should be valid.");
            panic err;
        }
    }
}

function getUntaintedJsonIfValid(json input) returns @untainted json {
    string inputStr = input.toString();
    boolean|error isValid = inputStr.matches(regexJson);
    if (isValid is error) {
        panic isValid;
    } else {
        if (isValid) {
            return input;
        } else {
            error err = error("Validation error: Input payload '" + inputStr + "' should be valid.");
            panic err;
        }
    }
}
```
- Ballerina uses `scope` as the way of expressing authorization. Multiple scopes can be assigned to a user, and scopes can then be validated while enforcing authorization. In order to express that certain service or resources require a scope, we have used the `scopes` annotation attribute. According to the `authConfig` of the service, in order to invoke `addOrder` function, the user should have 'add_order' scope, whereas to invoke `updateOrder` and `cancelOrder` user should have 'update_order' and 'cancel_order' scopes respectively.

## Testing

### Invoking the RESTful service

> You can run the RESTful service that you developed above, in your local environment. You need to have the Ballerina installation in you local machine and simply point to the <ballerina>/bin/ballerina binary to execute all the following steps.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can run the RESTful service that you developed above in your local environment. You need to have the Ballerina installation in your local machine and simply point to the <ballerina>/bin/ballerina binary to execute all the following steps.  
```

```

**Cancel Order - Authenticating as 'admin' user**
```
curl -k -u admin:ballerina -X DELETE "https://localhost:9090/ordermgt/order/100500"

Output:
"Order : 100500 removed."
```

### Writing unit tests

In Ballerina, the unit test cases should be in the same package inside a folder named as 'tests'. The naming convention should be as follows,

* Test functions should contain test prefix.
  * e.g.: testResourceAddOrder()

This guide contains unit test cases for each resource available in the 'order_mgt_service.bal'.

>Note: Make sure that embedded LDAP server is up and running prior to running the unit tests.

To run the unit tests, navigate to the `<SAMPLE_ROOT>/guide/` directory and run the following command.
```bash
   $ ballerina test
```

To check the implementation of the test file, refer to the [secure_order_mgt_service_test.bal](https://github.com/ballerina-guides/securing-restful-services-with-basic-auth/blob/master/guide/secure_restful_service/tests/secure_order_mgt_service_test.bal).

## Deployment

Once you are done with the development, you can deploy the service using any of the methods that we listed below.

### Deploying locally

> You can deploy the RESTful service that you developed above, in your local environment. You can use the Ballerina executable archive (.balx) archive that we created above and run it in your local environment as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can deploy the RESTful service that you developed above, in your local environment. You can use the Ballerina executable archive (.balx) that we created above and run it in your local environment as follows.
```

```
$ ballerina run target/secure_restful_service.balx
```

### Deploying on Docker

> 

Reviewer: Delete extra line break.

> You can run the service that we developed above as a docker container. As Ballerina platform offers native support for running ballerina programs on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can run the service that we developed above as a Docker container. As Ballerina platform offers native support for running Ballerina programs on
```

Let's change this everywhere in this doc.

containers, you just need to put the corresponding docker annotations on your service code.

> - In our OrderMgtService, we need to import  `` import ballerinax/docker; `` and use the annotation `` @docker:Config `` as shown below to enable docker image generation during the build time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In our OrderMgtService, we need to import `import ballerinax/docker;` and use the annotation `@docker:Config` as shown below to enable Docker image generation during the build time.
```

> - Then execute `docker ps` command in the terminal and take corresponding Docker process id for the LDAP server. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Execute the `docker ps` command in the terminal and take the corresponding Docker process id for the LDAP server. 
```

> Then execute execute `docker ps <PROCESS_ID>` and take IP address of the LDAP server container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Execute `docker ps <PROCESS_ID>` and take IP address of the LDAP server container.
```

```
   $ docker ps
```

```
   $ docker inspect <PROCESS_ID>
```

> - Then update the LDAP connectionURL of LdapAuthProviderConfig with the LDAP server container IP address

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update the LDAP `connectionURL` of `LdapAuthProviderConfig` with the LDAP server container IP address.
```

Use single back ticks for all config names like this.

    authProviders: [basicAuthProvider]
});

// Order management is done using an in memory map.
// Add some sample orders to 'orderMap' at startup.
map<json> ordersMap = {};

// RESTful service.
@http:ServiceConfig {
    basePath: "/ordermgt",
    authConfig: {
        authentication: { enabled: true }
    }
}
service order_mgt on httpListener {
```

- Now you can build a Ballerina executable archive (.balx) of the service that we developed above, using the following command. It points to the service file that we developed above and it will create an executable binary out of that.
This will also create the corresponding Docker image using the Docker annotations that you have configured above.
Navigate to the `<SAMPLE_ROOT>/src/` folder and run the following command.

```
   $ ballerina build secure_restful_service --skiptests

   Run following command to start docker container:
   docker run -d -p 9090:9090 ballerina.guides.io/secure_restful_service:v1.0
```

- Once you successfully build the Docker image, you can run it with the `docker run` command that is shown in the previous step.

```   
   docker run -d -p 9090:9090 ballerina.guides.io/secure_restful_service:v1.0
```

>   Here we run the Docker image with flag`` -p <host_port>:<container_port>`` so that we  use  the host port 9090 and the container port 9090. Therefore you can access the service through the host port.

Reviewer: Remove extra spaces.

});

// Order management is done using an in memory map.
// Add some sample orders to 'orderMap' at startup.
map<json> ordersMap = {};

// RESTful service.
@http:ServiceConfig {
    basePath: "/ordermgt",
    authConfig: {
        authentication: { enabled: true }
    }
}
service order_mgt on httpListener {
```

- Here we have used ``  @kubernetes:Deployment `` to specify the Docker image name which will be created as part of building this service.
- We have also specified `` @kubernetes:Service {} `` so that it will create a Kubernetes service which will expose the Ballerina service that is running on a Pod.  
- In addition we have used `` @kubernetes:Ingress `` which is the external interface to access your service (with path `` /`` and host name ``ballerina.guides.io``)

If you are using Minikube, you need to set a couple of additional attributes to the `@kubernetes:Deployment` annotation.
- `dockerCertPath` - The path to the certificates directory of Minikube (e.g., `/home/ballerina/.minikube/certs`).
- `dockerHost` - The host for the running cluster (e.g., `tcp://192.168.99.100:2376`). The IP address of the cluster can be found by running the `minikube ip` command.

> - Now you can build a Ballerina executable archive (.balx) of the service that we developed above, using the following command. It points to the service file that we developed above and it will create an executable binary out of that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Now you can build a Ballerina executable archive (.balx) of the service that we developed above by using the following command. It points to the service file that we developed above and it creates an executable binary out of that.
```

> This will also create the corresponding Docker image and the Kubernetes artifacts using the Kubernetes annotations that you have configured above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This also creates the corresponding Docker image and the Kubernetes artifacts using the Kubernetes annotations that you have configured above.
```

```
   $ ballerina build secure_restful_service --skiptests

   Run following command to deploy kubernetes artifacts:  
   kubectl apply -f ./target/kubernetes/secure_restful_service
```

- You can verify that the Docker image that we specified in `@kubernetes:Deployment` is created, by using `docker images`.

> - Also the Kubernetes artifacts related our service, will be generated in `./target/secure_restful_service/kubernetes`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Also, the Kubernetes artifacts related to your service is generated in `./target/secure_restful_service/kubernetes`.
```

- Now you can create the Kubernetes deployment using:

```
   $ kubectl apply -f ./target/kubernetes/secure_restful_service

   deployment.extensions "ballerina-guides-secure-restful-service" created
   ingress.extensions "ballerina-guides-secure-restful-service" created
   secret "listener-secure-socket" created
   service "ballerina-guides-secure-restful-service" created
```

> - You can verify Kubernetes deployment, service and ingress are running properly, by using following Kubernetes commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can verify if the Kubernetes deployment, service, and ingress are running properly by using the following Kubernetes commands.
```

```
   $ kubectl get service
   $ kubectl get deploy
   $ kubectl get pods
   $ kubectl get ingress
```

- If everything is successfully deployed, you can invoke the service either via Node port or ingress.

Node Port:

```
curl -kv -X POST -u counter:ballerina -d \
'{ "Order": { "ID": "100500", "Name": "XYZ", "Description": "Sample order."}}' \
"https://<Minikube_host_IP>:<Node_Port>/ordermgt/order" -H "Content-Type:application/json"
```

## Observability
Ballerina is by default observable. Meaning you can easily observe your services, resources, etc.

> However, observability is disabled by default via configuration. Observability can be enabled by adding following configurations to `ballerina.conf` file in `secure-restful-service/src/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, observability is disabled by default via configuration. Observability can be enabled by adding the following configurations to `ballerina.conf` file in `secure-restful-service/src/`.
```

```ballerina
[observability]

[observability.metrics]
# Flag to enable Metrics
enabled=true

[observability.tracing]
# Flag to enable Tracing
enabled=true
```

### Tracing

> You can monitor Ballerina services using in built tracing capabilities of Ballerina. We'll use [Jaeger](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger) as the distributed tracing system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can monitor Ballerina services using in-built tracing capabilities off Ballerina. We use [Jaeger](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger) as the distributed tracing system here.
```

Follow the following steps to use tracing with Ballerina.

- Run Jaeger Docker image using the following command
```bash
   docker run -d -p5775:5775/udp -p6831:6831/udp -p6832:6832/udp -p5778:5778 -p16686:16686
   -p14268:14268 jaegertracing/all- in-one:latest
```

- Navigate to `secure-restful-service/src/` and run the 'secure_restful_service' program using following command
```
   $ ballerina run secure_restful_service/
```

> - Observe the tracing using Jaeger UI using following URL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Observe the tracing using Jaeger UI by accessing the following URL
```

```
   http://localhost:16686
```

- You should see the Jaeger UI as follows

   ![Jaeger UI](images/tracing-screenshot.png "Tracing Screenshot")

### Metrics

> Metrics and alarts are built-in with Ballerina. We will use Prometheus as the monitoring tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metrics and alerts are built-in with Ballerina. We use Prometheus as the monitoring tool.
```

> Follow the below steps to set up Prometheus and view metrics for Ballerina restful service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the steps below to set up Prometheus and view metrics for Ballerina RESTful service.
```

- Set the below configurations in the `ballerina.conf` file in the project root, in addition to the user related configuration.
```ballerina
   [observability.metrics.prometheus]
   # Flag to enable Prometheus HTTP endpoint
   enabled=true
   # Prometheus HTTP endpoint port. Metrics will be exposed in /metrics context.
   # Eg: http://localhost:9797/metrics
   port=9797
   # Flag to indicate whether meter descriptions should be sent to Prometheus.
   descriptions=false
   # The step size to use in computing windowed statistics like max. The default is 1 minute.
   step="PT1M"
```

- Create a file `prometheus.yml` inside `/etc/` location. Add the below configurations to the `prometheus.yml` file.
```
   global:
   scrape_interval:     15s
   evaluation_interval: 15s

   scrape_configs:
    - job_name: 'prometheus'

   static_configs:
        - targets: ['172.17.0.1:9797']
```

>    NOTE : Replace `172.17.0.1` if your local Docker IP differs from `172.17.0.1`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   > **Note** : Replace `172.17.0.1` if your local Docker IP differs from `172.17.0.1`.
```

> - Run the Prometheus Docker image using the following command

Reviewer: Add periods at the end of every sentence. Apply everywhere in this guide.

```
   docker run -p 19090:9090 -v /tmp/prometheus.yml prom/prometheus
```

- You can access Prometheus at the following URL
```
   http://localhost:19090/
```

- Promethues UI with metrics for secure_restful_service

   ![promethues screenshot](images/metrics-screenshot.png "Prometheus UI")

### Logging

> Ballerina has a log package for logging to the console. You can `import ballerina/log` package and start logging. The following section will describe how to search, analyze, and visualize logs in real time using Elastic Stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ballerina has a log package for logging to the console. You can `import ballerina/log` package and start logging. The following section describes how to search, analyze, and visualize logs in real time using Elastic Stack.
```

- Start Elasticsearch using the following command
```
   docker run -p 9200:9200 -p 9300:9300 -it -h elasticsearch --name
   elasticsearch docker.elastic.co/elasticsearch/elasticsearch:6.5.1
```

>    NOTE: Linux users might need to run `sudo sysctl -w vm.max_map_count=262144` to increase `vm.max_map_count`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   > **Note**: Linux users might need to run `sudo sysctl -w vm.max_map_count=262144` to increase `vm.max_map_count`.
```

- Start Kibana plugin for data visualization with Elasticsearch
```
   docker run -p 5601:5601 -h kibana --name kibana --link elasticsearch:elasticsearch
   docker.elastic.co/kibana/kibana:6.5.1   
```

- Configure logstash to format the Ballerina logs

>     i) Create a file named `logstash.conf` with the following content

Reviewer: Shall we format this with proper list number format in markdown?

    ```
    input {
        beats {
           port => 5044
        }
    }

    filter {
        grok  {
            match => {
                "message" => "%{TIMESTAMP_ISO8601:date}%{SPACE}%{WORD:logLevel}%{SPACE}
                \[%{GREEDYDATA:package}\]%{SPACE}\-%{SPACE}%{GREEDYDATA:logMessage}"
            }
        }
    }

    output {
        elasticsearch {
            hosts => "elasticsearch:9200"
            index => "store"
            document_type => "store_logs"
        }
    }
    ```

>     ii) Save the above `logstash.conf` inside a directory named as `{SAMPLE_ROOT_DIRECTORY}\pipeline`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ii) Save the above `logstash.conf` inside a directory named `{SAMPLE_ROOT_DIRECTORY}\pipeline`
```

    iii) Start the logstash container, replace the {SAMPLE_ROOT_DIRECTORY} with your directory name

    ```
    docker run -h logstash --name logstash --link elasticsearch:elasticsearch -it --rm
        -v ~/{SAMPLE_ROOT_DIRECTIRY}/pipeline:/usr/share/logstash/pipeline/
        -p 5044:5044 docker.elastic.co/logstash/logstash:6.5.1
    ```

 - Configure filebeat to ship the Ballerina logs

     i) Create a file named `filebeat.yml` with the following content
    ```
    filebeat.prospectors:
      - type: log
    paths:
      - /usr/share/filebeat/ballerina.log
    output.logstash:
        hosts: ["logstash:5044"]
    ```
     ii) Save the above `filebeat.yml` inside a directory named as `{SAMPLE_ROOT_DIRECTORY}\filebeat`   

>      iii) Start the logstash container, replace the {SAMPLE_ROOT_DIRECTORY} with your directory name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     iii) Start the logstash container and replace the {SAMPLE_ROOT_DIRECTORY} with your directory name.
```

- [Developing the service](#developing-the-service)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [Observability](#observability)

## What you’ll build
To understand how you can secure a RESTful web service using Ballerina, let’s secure the web service you created in
the [RESTful Service guide](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-guide/restful-service/).

The following figure illustrates all the functionalities of the OrderMgt RESTful web service, that should be secured.

![RESTful Service](images/restful-service.svg "RESTful Service")

- **Create Order** : Order creation should be allowed for all the users. Authentication or authorization should not be enforced for this function.
- **Retrieve Order** : Retrieval of the order details should only be allowed for authenticated users.
- **Update Order** : Updating order details should only be allowed for "admin" users.
- **Delete Order** : Deletion of the order should only be allowed for "admin" users.

## Prerequisites

- JDK 1.8 or later
- [Ballerina Distribution](https://github.com/ballerina-lang/ballerina/blob/master/docs/quick-tour.md)
- A Text Editor or an IDE
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/)

> - To provide required LDAP user store for this guide, we have created a docker image with an embedded Apache DS which contains the user details that should be used in authentication and authorization. we will use the following LDAP schema, which creates two users. The 'counter' user only has 'add_order' scope, whereas the 'admin' user has 'add_order', 'update_order' and 'cancel_order' scopes. Here scopes are equivalent to LDAP groups. Follow the intruction to setup LDAP server neccessory for the guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To provide the required LDAP user store for this guide, we have created a Docker image with an embedded Apache DS, which contains the user details that should be used in authentication and authorization. We will use the following LDAP schema, which creates two users. The 'counter' user only has 'add_order' scope, whereas the 'admin' user has 'add_order', 'update_order', and 'cancel_order' scopes. Here scopes are equivalent to LDAP groups. Follow the instructions to setup the LDAP server necessary for the guide.
```

> - Execute the following command to pull docker image from the docker hub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Execute the following command to pull the Docker image from the Docker hub.
```

```bash
docker pull vijithaekanayake/embedded_ldap_server:1.0.0
```

> - After pulling the docker image, execute below command to start the LDAP server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- After pulling the Docker image, execute the following command to start the LDAP server.
```

```bash
docker run -d -p 9389:9389 vijithaekanayake/embedded_ldap_server:1.0.0
```

### Optional requirements
- Ballerina IDE plugins ([IntelliJ IDEA](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9520-ballerina), [VSCode](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=WSO2.Ballerina), [Atom](https://atom.io/packages/language-ballerina))

## Developing the service

> - We can get started with a Ballerina service; 'OrderMgtService', which is the RESTful service that serves the order management request. We will look at securing multiple resources exposed by OrderMgtService to match with the different security requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Let's get started with a Ballerina service; 'OrderMgtService', which is the RESTful service that serves the order management request. We will look at securing multiple resources exposed by OrderMgtService to match with the different security requirements.
```

> - Although the language allows you to have any package structure, use the following package structure for this project to follow this guide. The root directory will be denoted by `SAMPLE_ROOT` in the context of this README.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Although the language allows you to have any package structure, use the following package structure for this project to follow this guide. The root directory is denoted by `SAMPLE_ROOT` in the context of this README.
```

Let's use simple present tense instead of future tense wherever possible.

```
secure-restful-service
  └── guide
      └── secure-restful_service
          ├── secure_order_mgt_service.bal
          └── test
              └── secure_order_mgt_service_test.bal 
      └── ballerina.conf
```

- Once you created your package structure, go to the <SAMPLE_ROOT>/guide directory and run the following command to initialize your Ballerina project.

```bash
   $ ballerina init
```

>  - The above command will initialize the project with a `Ballerina.toml` file and `.ballerina` implementation 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - The above command initializes the project with a `Ballerina.toml` file and `.ballerina` implementation 
```

>  directory that contain a list of packages in the current directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 directory that contains a list of packages in the current directory.
```

 
 - `LdapAuthProviderConfig` record provides the required set of fields for the LDAP integration. Given configurations
  are aligned with the provided embedded LDAP server to demonstrate the scenario.

- Add the following content to your Ballerina service, which is the service created in "RESTful Service" Ballerina by Guide, but with authentication and authorization related annotation attributes added to the service and resource configuration. `authentication` is enabled in `authConfig` attribute of `ServiceConfig`. Therefore, authentication will be enforced on all the resources of the service. However, since we have overridden the `authentication` enabled status to 'false' for `findOrder` functionality, authentication will not be enforced for `findOrder`.

##### secure_order_mgt_service.bal
```ballerina
import ballerina/auth;
import ballerina/http;
import ballerina/log;

final string regexInt = "\\d+";
final string regexJson = "[a-zA-Z0-9.,{}:\" ]*";

// Configuration options to integrate Ballerina service

> // with an LDAP server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// with an LDAP server.
```

Let's add fullstops for all comments. Apply everywhere.

            if (responseToCaller is error) {
                log:printError("Error sending response", err = responseToCaller);
            }
        } else if (orderReq is error) {
            var responseToCaller = caller->respond("Error in extracting json payload from request");
            if (responseToCaller is error) {
                log:printError("Error sending response", err = responseToCaller);
            }
        }
    }

    // Resource that handles the HTTP PUT requests that are directed
    // to the path '/orders' to update an existing Order.
    @http:ResourceConfig {
        methods: ["PUT"],
        path: "/order/{orderId}",
        authConfig: {
            scopes: ["update_order"]
        }
    }
    resource function updateOrder(http:Caller caller, http:Request req, string orderId) {
        var updatedOrder = req.getJsonPayload();

        if (updatedOrder is json) {
            // Get untainted value if `orderId` is a valid input
            string validOrderId = getUntaintedStringIfValid(orderId);

            // Find the order that needs to be updated and retrieve it in JSON format.
            json existingOrder = ordersMap[validOrderId];

>             // Get untainted json value if it is a valid json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            // Get untainted JSON value if it is a valid JSON.
```

            existingOrder = getUntaintedJsonIfValid(existingOrder);
            updatedOrder = getUntaintedJsonIfValid(updatedOrder);

>             // Updating existing order with the attributes of the updated order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            // Update existing order with the attributes of the updated order.
```
